In this lesson you're going to learn what a Linux distribution is, what the
most common Linux distributions are, and how to choose the right one for you.
Generally when someone uses the term Linux, they're referring to the Linux
operating system as a whole.
An Operating System is a collection of
software that manages hardware resources and provides an environment where
applications run. The Operating System allows applications to store information,
send documents to a printer, and interact with users, for example. A Linux
distribution is simply a collection of software and applications bundled
together and distributed as a single operating system.  For example, one Linux
distribution might come with one particular web browser installed while
another Linux distribution will come with another web browser installed by
default.  You'll be able to browse the web on either distribution, but the specific
piece of software used to do that might be different.
It's important to point out here that the software that comes installed by
default can be changed.  If you don't like the web browser that shipped with the Linux
distribution you're using, you can install another one and use that.  You
can think of a Linux distribution as a curated collection of software that
works well together, but you're more than free to use the software and
applications that you like best.
Before we continue, I'd like to point out that you'll often hear the term
Distribution shortened to distro.  Also, some people refer to the various
distributions as flavors. What every Linux distribution has in common,
though, is the Linux kernel.  Again, typically when the term Linux is used it refers to the
Linux Operating System as a whole.
However, it can refer to just the Linux Kernel as well. The Linux kernel is the
core or the heart of the Operating System.  It’s the layer that sits between
the hardware and applications.  Said another way, it’s the intermediary
between software and hardware.
However, to have a useful operating system you need other components in
addition to the kernel.  These components can include system libraries, graphical
user interfaces, email utilities, web browsers, and other programs. To summarize
a Linux distribution is the Linux kernel
and a collection of software that, together, create an operating system. By far,
the two most popular Linux distributions used in information technology
departments and by Linux professionals are RedHat Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu. So,
if you plan to use Linux in your current or future career as a Linux system
administrator, Linux system engineer, or even a database administrator or
software developer, then I highly recommend focusing on these two Linux
distributions.  You can forget about the literally hundreds and hundreds of Linux
distributions and choose between RedHat Enterprise Linux and Ubuntu. If you want to
work for large, traditional organizations like financial institutions,
transportation companies, telecommunication corporations, large
retailers, and healthcare organizations then you should choose RedHat. By the
way, to run RedHat you need to pay for a license.
However, there is really no need to pay for a license if you're going to be
running Linux at home or want something to practice on.  Instead use CentOS which
is a RedHat Enterprise Linux derivative that's completely free.
It's really RedHat with the branding and logos replaced with CentOS branding.
If, on the other hand, you want to work for a startup or smaller, more nimble
web-based companies like Software-As-A-Service type businesses,
social networking sites, smaller ecommerce stores, or practically any
company the relies heavily on cloud computing, then Ubuntu is the
distribution for you. If you're using Linux strictly for fun, for personal
projects, or just want to see what other distributions have to offer,
feel free to try out some other popular distros like:  Linux Mint, Debian, Mageia,
Fedora, openSuse - (open-su-za), Arch Linux & Slackware. When choosing a Linux distro for
personal use it mainly comes down to personal preference and if you like most
of the software that comes installed by default.  Of course, don't forget
CentOS and Ubuntu.  They make great distros for personal use as well.
Ultimately,  Linux is Linux at the core. No matter which choice you make, the Linux
concepts are going to be the same.  Sure, each distribution is going to be a
little different, but if you can do something on one
distribution you'll most likely be able to figure out how to do it on another. What
this really means is that you can't make a "wrong" decision.  Know that by simply
choosing a Linux distribution -- any distribution -- you've already made the
right choice. To recap,a Linux distribution is the Linux kernel and a
collection of software that, together, create an operating system. The two most
popular Linux distributions used in the industry today are RedHat Enterprise
Linux and Ubuntu. If you want to gain RedHat experience without paying a
licensing fee, then use CentOS as it's really RedHat with the branding and logos
replaced with CentOS branding.